# The Cancer Gene Trust
[The Cancer Gene Trust](http://www.cancergenetrust.org) is a simple, real-time, global network for sharing somatic cancer data and associated clinical information. It's architecture is a decentralized, distributed content addressable real-time database. Stewards working directly with patient-participants publish de-identified genomic and basic clinical data. Researchers who find rare variants or combinations of variants in this global resource that are associated with specific clinical features of interest may then contact the data stewards for those participants. A submission consists of a manifest containing fields and references to files by multihash. Initial submissions will likely include de-identified clinical data, a list of somatic mutations, and gene expression data although any type of data can be submitted and shared.

# Submissions
Stewards maintain submissions in (IPFS)[https://ipfs.io] and submit the top level hash to a contract on the blockchain. Submissions consist of a JSON manifest with a list of fields and files. Fields typically include de-identified clinical data (i.e. tumor type). Files typically consist of somatic variant vcf files and gene expression tsv file. Manifest's and files are stored and referenced by the [multihash](https://github.com/jbenet/multihash) of their content. Eash steward has a top level JSON index file containing it's dns domain, list of submissions by multihash and list of peers by address. A steward's address is the account they use to update their top level hash via a contract on the blockchain. This provides authentication and authorization for its submissions as well as any other content referenced via multihash within it including all submissions. 

# ĐApp
This prototype ĐApp currently only allows browsing submissions. Submitting data is via IPFS or the Submit repo which will eventually be folded into this application.
